---
layout: post
title:  "sCTF.io Q1"
date:   2016-04-19 22:34:18 +0200
categories: ctf
---

A week ago, I took part of the sCTF.io 2016 Q1 with a friend. This is the first time I take seriously part to a CTF. We managed to score 1700 points and ranked 7th of about 700 teams (Funpetitor for us as we do not live in US).

{% lightbox sctfio-2016q1.png %}

Here are a few notes about problems we solved and found interesting.

### Rev1

I used IDA during the challenge, but as I want to practice with radare2 the write up will be using radare2.

First, I ran the program to have an idea of what to look for.

{% highlight bash linenos %}
root@kali:~/sCTF/Rev1# ./rev1
What is the magic password?
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
{% endhighlight %}

So it does not print anything if the password is wrong. It's time to fire radare2 !

{% gist m-rousse/fc268c82b2e82026ab965499b3f855f5 %}

The steps :

  - `aaa` : First, analyze all the program fonctions
  - `ìz` : Then print all the strings of the program
  - `pd 10 @ 0x00400744-5`: We show the disassembly around one of the strings. We see that "What is the magic password" is used in `main` at 0x00400677
  - `s 0x00400677` : So we move to 0x00400677
  - `pdf @ 0x00400677` : And we print the disassembly of the function (main).
  - There, we can see the password is compared to `0x5b74` as a numerical value. The password is then this value in decimal : 23412

We found our password, let's feed it to the binary :

{% highlight bash linenos %}
root@kali:~/sCTF/Rev1# ./rev1
What is the magic password?
23412
Correct! Your flag is: h4x0r!!!
{% endhighlight %}

We did it !

`flag : sctf{h4x0r!!!}`
