---
layout: post
title:  "My setup"
date:   2016-04-06 11:52:53 +0200
categories: misc
---

I spent many hours on the internet, discovering new technologies, comparing them to understand their assets and how they could help me on my projects.

During one of those promenades, I found [usethis.com](https://usesthis.com), a website which interviews folks about their setup.

I found many great products in it and wanted to share mine as a student. Few years after I start working, I will update this.

### Who are you, and what do you do?
I am Mathieu Rousse, a student in micro-electronics and computer sciences at the École des Mines de Saint-Étienne campus Provence, near Marseille in the south of France. This is a very broad subject and I decided to focus more on the security side of it. So I will be doing my third year at Télécom SudParis school in the south-east of Paris. There I will be studying network security and software security.

During the next 5 months, I will be working on a high-performance computing framework using OpenCL and CUDA to analyze ultrasound data.

When I was 15 years old I discovered what was linux, a server, and how a misconfigured LDAP server could compromise all accounts from my accounts. At that moment I also discovered what were the consequences of accessing a system I was not supposed to.

It was at this moment I knew I would do security later. I kept practicing security since then and built my own lab. Eventually during LAN Parties I would try some new techniques when a game I already lost took too much time to end. (My very first DoS).

So I do write programs, experiment server configurations, try to crack the crackmes and attend security conferences as much as I can.

### What hardware do you use?

I have had the occasion to put my hands over a lot of hardware since I started. I played with several Cisco C2950, C3550 and C2960, all 48 ports. They were useless for a daily use, but handsome when in LAN Party.

My everyday computer is a MSI laptop with a 15" i7 2.5GHz quad-core and 16G of RAM. I added 240G of SSD to complements its terabyte HDD. It is a little too powerful for the everyday use I have.

My personal Server is hosted by Kimsufi (OVH) in Canada, it has two gigs of ram and two thread at 1.86GHz for a 500G storage. It is more than enough to handle every experiments I may want to do.

My phone is a OnePlus One I bought by chance because a friend had an invitation about to expire. It is surprisingly fluid and powerful. As my laptop, maybe a little too powerful for what I do with it.

I do also have a Raspberry Pi 1 version B. It is a very good toy, but lacks bluetooth/wifi by default and sometimes freezes when used as a network router.

I bought a Hercules XPS DJ Monitor set for my desk. It has dramatically changed the way I listen to music while working. They where quite expensive (80€) but they are absolutely perfect to my ears.

### What software do you use?

My laptop runs with a dualboot Windows 8.1 (for work reasons, I had to downgrade from Win 10) with Debian 8. I worked during 6 years with Archlinux, which IS an excellent distribution. I chose to change in order to have more experience with Debian.

My server is running under Archlinux since 2012. It runs my mails, web hosting (apache/mysql/php), my versionning (Gogs), and an owncloud instance to host my calendar, contacts and to share/backup files.

My phone runs under CyanogenMod 13, freshly installed. I had to reset it recently, and I decided not to download many useless apps. The main apps I use are Twitter, Whatsapp and Airdroid.
I installed F-Droid to have access to open-source apps, where I got K-9 Mail, a cute mail client and the most important one : DAVDroid. It allows me to synchronize my contacts and agenda with my owncloud server.

I use daily Keepass to store all my passwords, Firefox, Thunderbird and the freshly installed Atom.io as a text editor.

I am addicted to the Office Suite as it produce easily beautiful documents. I abuse OneNote synced with my phone to store every tasks and ideas I have.

And lastly, I use VirtualBox to launch my various virtual machines.

### What would be your dream setup
